---
title: journalctl
slug: journalctl
date: 2017-06-26 10:38
category: linux
tags: linux, systemd, journalctl
---

## The Journal

The journal, according to the developers, is a logging scheme that provides structured, indexed and reliable logging on systemd systems, while providing a certain degree of compatibility with classic syslog implementations.

In more detail, the journal is a component of systemd, that captures Syslog messages, Kernel log messages, initial RAM disk and early boot messages as well as messages written to STDOUT/STDERR of all services, indexes them and stores them in binary files called _journals_.

The journal is implemented with the `journald` daemon and `journalctl` is the tool to query the journal.

## journalctl

`journalctl` may be used to query the contents of the `systemd` journal. It offers excellent filtering capabilities.

All users are granted access to their private per-user journals. However, by default, only root and users who are members of a few special groups are granted access to the system journal and the journals of other users. Members of the groups `systemd-journal`, `adm`, and `wheel` can read all journal files.

The output is paged through `less` by default, and long lines are "truncated" to screen width. The hidden part can be viewed by using the left-arrow and right-arrow keys.

Usage
```bash
journalctl [OPTIONS...] [MATCHES...]
```

Below some common operations using `journalctl`:

- Display all collected logs:
```bash
journalctl
```

- Follow live view of logs:
```bash
journalctl -f
```

- Display logs of current boot:
```bash
journalctl -b
```

- Display logs filtered by priority _error_ or higher:
```bash
journalctl -p err
```

- Display all logs from the day before:
```bash
journalctl --since=yesterday
```

- Display logs from the last twenty minutes:
```bash
journalctl --since "20 min ago"
```

- Display logs between dates:
```bash
journalctl --since="2014-11-16 23:59:59" --until="2014-11-23 23:59:59"
```

- Display logs between hours:
```bash
journalctl -u sshd --since=00:00 --until=9:30
```

- Display kernel logs from previous boot:
```bash
journalctl -k -b -1
```

- Display logs generated by bash executable
```bash
journalctl /bin/bash
```

- Display logs generated by a disk
```bash
journalctl /dev/sda
```

- Display a live log from httpd service:
```bash
journalctl -f -u httpd
```

- Output logs with metadata:
```bash
journalctl -o verbose
```

- Output as a binary stream suitable for backups and network transfers:
```bash
journalctl -o export
```

- Output as JSON data suitable for web:
```bash
journalctl -o json
```

- Display possible fields for _SELINUX_CONTEXT value:
```bash
journalctl _SELINUX_CONTEXT=<TAB><TAB>
```

- Display logs from selinux label PolicyKit:
```bash
journalctl _SELINUX_CONTEXT=system_u:system_r:policykit_t:s0
```

For further information about journalctl, read [Red Hat Documentation: Using the Journal](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-US/Red_Hat_Enterprise_Linux/7/html/System_Administrators_Guide/s1-Using_the_Journal.html), [0pointer.de post: journalctl](http://0pointer.de/blog/projects/journalctl.html), [man page: journalctl](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/journalctl.html)
